Macrowave Sawyer Waugh  

**What is your company going to make?:** We are making the Macrowave – a smartphone case that automatically measures the caloric and macronutritional content of your food.  Traditionally, diet tracking means manually identifying, portioning and recording one’s meals, either on paper or digitally.  The Macrowave eliminates that hassle - just wave your phone over your plate of food and the meal is logged. Much like Makerbot’s Digitizer generates 3D models of your stuff, our laser system constructs a model of your food.  Next, a cloud-based food recognition engine intelligently identifies the various components of your meal, and looks up their nutritional densities.  Multiplying the volume of each food by its nutritional density gives us an accurate breakdown of the nutritional profile of your meal. 

**In two sentences, say the most impressive thing about this team / startup.**: We’ve been friends and teammates for 11 years.    We have also restricted our diet to protein shakes and rice for the past three months in order to finance a 3D printer for prototyping and a rig for image processing. 

**Please tell us in one or two sentences about the most impressive thing that each founder has built or achieved.:** Sawyer scored a try on the current captain of the USA Rugby Team in an Ivy League Championship match.   Chris designed and machined a custom tool in under 4 hours that saved Siemens approximately $3 million over the course of the following two days. 

**Why did you pick this idea to work on?  Do you have domain expertise in this area?  How do you know people need what you're making?:** We are entrenched in bodybuilding culture.  At its core, bodybuilding is the art of controlling one's body composition. And that's no easy task - just ask the >66% of US adults who are overweight or obese.  I began experimenting with a ketogenic diet at age 15. Today, I follow the Lean Gains protocol - a “methodology” consisting of intermittent fasting, carb cycling, and periods of ketosis.    Everyone tries to diet (105 million Americans annually), but the overwhelming majority fail. The lack of commitment stems from:  1. fundamentally flawed expectations 2. time-consuming meal logging process.  Our product eliminates these issues.  For our users, we expect better diet adherence with less effort, and ultimately a more sustainable relationship with food and dieting. 

**What's new about what you're making? What substitutes do people resort to because it doesn't exist yet (or they don't know about it)?:** The Macrowave is the first diet tool that does the weighing, counting and logging for you.  Services like Weight Watchers simplify the diet logging process by assigning a point system to various foods, but still, the data must be entered manually.  Many "dieters" resort to pre-packaged, single-serving, and often processed, food products that are labeled with the nutrition info. These foods are easily tracked with a barcode scan, but the negative aspects of living off "convenience foods" are obvious.  The most common solution is to simply quit dieting. The average American dieter will make 4 - 5 attempts at dieting in a year. 

**Who are your competitors, and what do you understand about your business that other companies in it just don't get?:** MyFitnessPal, Fitbit & Jawbone all provide popular diet logging applications. The MealSnap App users submit a photo of their meal to be analyzed by Amazon Turkers.  The HealBe GoBe is a wearable device that estimates caloric intake with an impedance sensor. The first three products require a lot of work from the user.  It takes me up to 10 minutes to enter a meal into these apps, & that’s not including the time it takes to weigh and portion the food.  The last two products reduce the time & effort required to log your meals, but severely compromise accuracy in doing so.  MealSnap gives you a ‘ballpark’ within 200 calories, and the GoBe only tracks carbohydrates. 

**How will you get users? How do or will you make money? How does this become a giant company?:** To get users, we will pay popular fitness personalities to endorse our product via social media.  If you’ve spent any time on Instagram, you’ve likely noticed that #fitspo folks are repping their favorite brands regularly.  These guys have huge pull with their followers. For example, after enlisting 20 beautiful & chiseled bods to advertise their products on Instagram, supplement company SHREDZ saw 20x growth in 2014.   We will have two sources of income: the upfront purchase of the Macrowave, and a recurring monthly payment.  The device will be packaged with a limited trial of the food recognition engine.  After the trial, users will be required to pay a small monthly subscription fee.    America’s obesity epidemic makes for a “giant” market. 

**If you have an online demo, what's the url? (Please don't password protect it; just use an obscure url.):** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TeF3frrc8Fo 
